[Logs] Update docs processing docs (#3140)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/logs-stream.asciidoc

}
----

> Use the this command to look at the document's details:

Author: yes

[[logs-stream-ingest-pipeline]]
=== Use an ingest pipeline to extract the `@timestamp`

> To extract the `@timestamp` field from the example log, use an ingest pipeline with a dissect processor. Ingest pipelines in Elasticsearch are used to process incoming documents. The {ref}/dissect-processor.html[dissect processor] is one of the available processors that extracts structured fields from your unstructured log message based the pattern you set. In the following example command, the dissect processor extracts the timestamp to the `@timestamp` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extract the `@timestamp` field from the example log, use an ingest pipeline with a dissect processor. Ingest pipelines in {es} are used to process incoming documents. The {ref}/dissect-processor.html[dissect processor] is one of the available processors that extracts structured fields from your unstructured log message based the pattern you set. In the following example command, the dissect processor extracts the timestamp to the `@timestamp` field.
```

----
PUT _index_template/logs-example-default-template
{
  "index_patterns": [ "logs-example-*" ],
  "data_stream": { },
  "priority": 500,
  "template": {
    "settings": {

>       "index.default_pipeline":"logs-example-default"

Author: Makes sense as I switched to a pattern.

    }
  },

>   "composed_of": ["ecs@dynamic_templates"],

Author: @eyalkoren @felixbarny I suggest we recommend users to add the ecs template by default?

Author: I'll add it to the template. It means we also have an opportunity here to quickly explain why these are all here.

----
PUT _index_template/logs-example-default-template
{
  "index_patterns": [ "logs-example-*" ],
  "data_stream": { },
  "priority": 500,
  "template": {
    "settings": {
      "index.default_pipeline":"logs-example"
    }
  },

>   "composed_of": [

Author: @mdbirnstiehl In a follow up PR, we should explain in details what these are doing. I would like to quickly sync with you on this to discuss how we describe this best. A quick summary to get it storated:

Author: Thanks @eyalkoren . Not sure what you mean by dynamic vs perma links?

Reviewer 2: A link to the corresponding template file in main (e.g. [`logs-mappings.json`](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/main/x-pack/plugin/core/template-resources/src/main/resources/logs-mappings.json)) would be useful, but may break docs build if changed/moved (just like [happened recently](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/97763)).
A link to a permanent URL (e.g. [`logs-mappings.json`](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/1955bd8ad421e4acc37dbb4e948c5ff80fce4131/x-pack/plugin/core/template-resources/src/main/resources/logs-mappings.json)) will not be very useful.

Author: I really like the idea of being able to link to it or copy it over and update it from time to time. Having the templates in the docs directly will also allow to explain these better. Maybe we need a page where these are explained, a dedicate page? If we have this, how would we keep it up-to-date there? Seems like one of these common issues on how to keep docs and code in sync.

Reviewer 2: If we come up with a method to keep docs up-to-date somehow, maybe we can use permanent links and keep them up to date.

Author: @mdbirnstiehl @bmorelli25 Has something like this been done in the past?

Reviewer: @bmorelli25 can answer maybe better than me if this fits the situation. BI think in the APM realm some files that have ties to docs require a review from obs-docs before merging to prevent the file from being updated without the corresponding docs. Not sure if we could do something like that in this instance.

    "logs-settings",
    "logs@custom",
    "ecs@dynamic_templates"
  ],
  "ignore_missing_component_templates": ["logs@custom"],
}
----

Set the following values for the index template:

- `index_patterns`– The index pattern needs to match your log data stream. Naming conventions for data streams are `<type>-<dataset>-<namespace>`. In this example, your logs data stream is named `logs-example-default`. Data that matches this pattern will go through your pipeline.
- `data_stream` – Enables data streams.
- `priority` – Index templates with higher priority take precedence over lower priority. If a data stream matches multiple index templates, the template with the higher priority is used. Built-in templates have a priority of `200`, so we recommend a priority higher than `200`.
- `index.default_pipeline` – The name of your ingest pipeline. `logs-example-default` in this case.

Some info about the proposed component templates composing the index template above:

* *`logs-mappings`* - general mappings for logs data streams, including:
** disabling automatic date detection from `string` fields
** mappings for the {ecs-ref}/ecs-data_stream.html[`data_stream` ECS fields]

> * *`logs-settings`* - general settings for logs data streams, including: 
> ** default lifecycle policy: rolling over when primary shard's size reaches 50 GB, or after 30 days
> ** default pipeline that:
> *** sets a `@timestamp` if such is missing (using the ingest timestamp)
> *** places a hook for the `logs@custom` pipeline- if a pipeline with this name is installed, it will be applied to logs ingested into this data stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logs-settings`* – Sets the general settings for logs data streams including the default lifecycle policy and default pipeline: 
-- The default lifecycle policy rolls over when the primary shard reaches 50 GB or after 30 days.
-- The default pipeline:
--- Sets a `@timestamp` if there isn't one using the ingest timestamp.
--- Places a hook for the `logs@custom` pipeline. If a `logs@custom` pipeline is installed, it's applied to logs ingested into this data stream.
```

> ** sets the {ref}/ignore-malformed.html[`ignore_malformed`] flag to `true`, which means that if a log document contains a field with a value of the wrong type, and the mapping type for this field supports this flag, then the document will not be rejected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Sets the {ref}/ignore-malformed.html[`ignore_malformed`] flag to `true`. If a field in the log document contains an incorrect value type and the field's mapping type supports this flag, the document is still processed.
```

> * *`logs@custom`* - a predefined component template that is not installed by default. Use this name to install a custom component template if you wish to override/extend any of the default mappings/settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logs@custom` – a predefined component template that is not installed by default. Use this name to install a custom component template if you wish to override or extend any of the default mappings or settings.
```

> * *`ecs@dynamic_templates`* - dynamic templates that ensure automatic compliance of your data stream mappings with the {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *`ecs@dynamic_templates`* - dynamic templates that ensure automatic compliance of your data stream mappings with the {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)]
```
```suggestion
* `ecs@dynamic_templates` – dynamic templates that automatically ensure you data stream mappings comply with the {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[Elastic Common Schema (ECS)].
```
